enh(epp): mysql proc (#2362)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-databases-mysql.md

id: applications-databases-mysql
title: MySQL/MariaDB
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **MySQL/MariaDB** brings a host template:

* **App-DB-MySQL**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="App-DB-MySQL" label="App-DB-MySQL">

| Service Alias      | Service Template                | Service Description                                                                      |
|:-------------------|:--------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Connection-Time    | App-DB-MySQL-Connection-Time    | Check the connection time to the server. This time is given in seconds                   |
| Connections-Number | App-DB-MySQL-Connections-Number | Check the number of open connections                                                     |

> | Database-Size      | App-DB-MySQL-Database-Size      | Check size of databases. No Alerts by default                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Database-Size      | App-DB-MySQL-Database-Size      | Check the size of databases. No alerts by default                                            |
```

| Myisam-Keycache    | App-DB-MySQL-Myisam-Keycache    | Check the hit rate of the MyISAM tables                                                  |
| Open-Files         | App-DB-MySQL-Open-Files         | Check the number of files that currently are open                                        |

> | Queries            | App-DB-MySQL-Queries            | Check the average of queries per second                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Queries            | App-DB-MySQL-Queries            | Check the average number of queries per second                                                  |
```

| Innodb-Bufferpool    | App-DB-MySQL-Innodb-Bufferpool            | Check the hit rate of the InnoDB buffer                                                            |
| Long-Queries         | App-DB-MySQL-Long-Queries                 | Check current number of long queries                                                               |
| MariaDB-Replication  | App-DB-MySQL-MariaDB-Replication          | Collect and compute SQL datas                                                                      |
| Password-Expiration  | App-DB-MySQL-Password-Expiration          | Check user password expiration                                                                     |
| Qcache-Hitrate       | App-DB-MySQL-Qcache-Hitrate               | Check query cache hitrate                                                                          |
| Sql-Statement        | App-DB-MySQL-Sql-Statement-Generic        | Check allowing to execute a custom SQL request with a digital answer                               |
| Sql-Statement-String | App-DB-MySQL-Sql-Statement-String-Generic | Check allowing to execute a custom SQL request with a string answer                                |

> | Uptime               | App-DB-MySQL-Uptime                       | This check indicates the operation time since the server is running. This time in given in minutes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Uptime               | App-DB-MySQL-Uptime                       | This check indicates for how long the server has been running. This time is given in minutes |
```

```bash
dnf install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Mysql
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian 11">

```bash
apt install centreon-plugin-applications-databases-mysql
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="CentOS 7" label="CentOS 7">

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Databases-Mysql
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Using the monitoring connector

### Using a host template provided by the connector

1. Log into Centreon and add a new host through **Configuration > Hosts**.
2. Fill the **Name**, **Alias** & **IP Address/DNS** fields according to your ressource settings.
3. Apply the **App-DB-MySQL-custom** template to the host. A list of macros appears. Macros allow you to define how the connector will connect to the resource, and to customize the connector's behavior.
4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory.

| Macro             | Description                                                                                           | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:------------|

> | MYSQLPASSWORD     | Password for the defined user name                                                                    | PASSWORD          |             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| MYSQLPASSWORD     | Password for the defined user name                                                                    | PASSWORD          |       X     |
```

> | MYSQLPORT         |                                                                                                       |                   |             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| MYSQLPORT         |                                                                                                       |                   |      X      |
```

> | MYSQLUSERNAME     | User name used to connect to the database                                                             | USERNAME          |             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| MYSQLUSERNAME     | User name used to connect to the database                                                             | USERNAME          |   X   |
```

| MYSQLEXTRAOPTIONS | Any extra option you may want to add to every command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options) |                   |             |

> 5. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The host appears in the list of hosts, and on page **Resources Status**. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the host: it shows the values of the macros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The host appears in the list of hosts, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the host: it shows the values of the macros.
```

| WARNING       | Threshold warning (number of long queries)                                                          |                   |             |
| CRITICAL      | Threshold critical (number of long queries)                                                         |                   |             |
| EXTRAOPTIONS  | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options) | --verbose         |             |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="MariaDB-Replication" label="MariaDB-Replication">

| Macro                     | Description                                                                                                                                                               | Default value                                    | Mandatory   |
|:--------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|:------------|

> | PEERPORT                  |                                                                                                                                                                           | 3306                                             |             |
> | PEERUSERNAME              |                                                                                                                                                                           | USERNAME                                         |             |
> | PEERPASSWORD              |                                                                                                                                                                           | PASSWORD                                         |             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| PEERPORT                  |                                                                                                                                                                           | 3306                                             | X           |
| PEERUSERNAME              |                                                                                                                                                                           | USERNAME                                         | X           |
| PEERPASSWORD              |                                                                                                                                                                           | PASSWORD                                         | X           |
```

| UNKNOWNREPLICATIONSTATUS  | Set unknown threshold for status (Default: '%{replication\_status} =~ /configurationIssue/i'). You can use the following variables: %{replication\_status}, %{display}    | %{replication_status} =~ /configurationIssue/i   |             |

> | PEERHOST                  |                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                  |             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| PEERHOST                  |                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                  | X           |
```

| EXTRAOPTIONS | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options)                                                                                             |                   |             |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Uptime" label="Uptime">

| Macro        | Description                                                                                         | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:-------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:------------|
| WARNING      | Threshold warning                                                                                   |                   |             |
| CRITICAL     | Threshold critical                                                                                  |                   |             |
| EXTRAOPTIONS | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options) |                   |             |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> 3. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The service appears in the list of service, and on page **Resources Status**. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the service: it shows the values of the macros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The service appears in the list of service, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the service: it shows the values of the macros.
```
